NXDOC-2010 - how to set the Enhanced Viewer as default viewer (#1328)
nuxeo/doc.nuxeo.com-content: src/nxdoc/nuxeo-add-ons/nuxeo-enhanced-viewer/how-to-set-enhanced-viewer-as-default-document-preview.md

review:
    comment: ''
    date: '2019-11-12'
    status: ok
labels:
    - addon
    - tutorial
    - howto
toc: true
tree_item_index: 100
---

This tutorial provides step by step instructions to replace the default Nuxeo previewer by the Enhanced Viewer. The instructions will be also valid for other use cases: It is possible to display the enhanced viewer in the task layout, or any other location where a document preview should be displayed.

## Prerequisites

Make sure that the Nuxeo Enhanced Viewer addon is installed and configured on the Nuxeo instance.

## Enhanced Previewer Element

Nuxeo Web UI is built upon [Nuxeo Elements](page page='nuxeo-elements' space='nxdoc'). The Enhanced Viewer is displayed thanks to the **`nuxeo-arender-page`** element. It is composed of the following attributes:

- `visible`: Whether the element should be displayed or not.
- `name`: The component name.
- `document`: The document which should be displayed.

{{#> callout type='info' }}
The `document` attribute is linked to a property of type `Object` (as in the document layouts for example).
{{/callout}}

## Practical Case: Change the default previewer

We can have two approaches:

> - To update the previewer for specific document types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update the previewer for specific document types
```

> - To update the previewer for all document types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update the previewer for all document types
```

### For specific document types

> - Generate the document type layouts in **Nuxeo Studio Designer** > **UI** > **Layouts**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Generate the document type layouts in **Nuxeo Studio Designer** > **UI** > **Layouts**.
```

> - On the **view** layout, switch to code view and replace the line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the **View** layout, switch to code view and replace the line
```

```
<nuxeo-document-viewer role="widget" document="[[document]]"></nuxeo-document-viewer>
```

by

```
<nuxeo-arender-page visible="true" name="enhanced-viewer" document="[[document]]"></nuxeo-arender-page>
```

> - Save and deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Save and deploy
```

### For all document types

> - Copy the `nuxeo-document-page` code in the [Nuxeo Web UI Github Page](https://github.com/nuxeo/nuxeo-web-ui/blob/10.10/elements/document/nuxeo-document-page.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Copy the `nuxeo-document-page` code in the [Nuxeo Web UI Github Page](https://github.com/nuxeo/nuxeo-web-ui/blob/10.10/elements/document/nuxeo-document-page.html).
```

> - Create a copy of this element within your Nuxeo Studio Designer Project (from the **Resources** tab), in any folder location (`/UI/custom-elements/custom-nuxeo-document-page.html`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a copy of this element within your Nuxeo Studio Designer Project (from the **Resources** tab), in any folder location (`/UI/custom-elements/custom-nuxeo-document-page.html`).
```

> - Replace the line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Replace the line
```

```
<nuxeo-document-view document="[[document]]"></nuxeo-document-view>
```
by

```
<nuxeo-arender-page visible="true" name="enhanced-viewer" document="[[document]]"></nuxeo-arender-page>
```

> - Save and deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Save and deploy
```

## Going further

> It is possible to create custom logic to display a specific document version. All needed is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to create custom logic to display a specific document version. To do so:
```

> 1. Create an automation scripting / chain which return a document (Using the `Document.GetVersion` operation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an automation scripting / chain which returns a document (Using the `Document.GetVersion` operation).
```

> 2. Navigate to your document type layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to your document type layout.
```

> 3. Add you operation with `<nuxeo-operation id="getFirstVersion" op="javascript.AS_GetFirstVersion" input="[[document]]"></nuxeo-operation>` to retrieve the current document (Adapt the variable to the context)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add your operation with `<nuxeo-operation id="getFirstVersion" op="javascript.AS_GetFirstVersion" input="[[document]]"></nuxeo-operation>` to retrieve the current document (adapt the variable to the context).
```

> 4. Add the `_valueChanged` observer on the `document` to execute the operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add the `_valueChanged` observer on the `document` to execute the operation.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```
document: {
          type: Object,
          observer: '_valueChanged'
},
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 5. Add the document which needs to be displayed in the properties: `myFirstVersion: Object`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add the document which needs to be displayed in the properties: `myFirstVersion: Object` .
```

> 6. Add the `_valueChanged` method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Add the `_valueChanged` method:
```
